README.md, before:

# monetr

[![GitHub](https://github.com/monetr/monetr/actions/workflows/main.yaml/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/monetr/monetr/actions/workflows/main.yaml)
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmonetr%2Fmonetr.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmonetr%2Fmonetr?ref=badge_shield)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/monetr/monetr/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=4BRVTD3VSJ)](https://codecov.io/gh/monetr/monetr)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/monetr/monetr)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/monetr/monetr)
[![wakatime](https://wakatime.com/badge/user/e7d2c225-af72-41dc-bf39-f4a8108dc790/project/30965d1c-e425-4da3-9a31-7b1ca82dfaef.svg)](https://wakatime.com/badge/user/e7d2c225-af72-41dc-bf39-f4a8108dc790/project/30965d1c-e425-4da3-9a31-7b1ca82dfaef)

<p align="center">
  <img width="460" height="300" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/monetr/monetr/main/ui/assets/logo.svg">
</p>

monetr is a budgeting application that aims to allow people to more easily plan their recurring expenses. It is
completely free to self-host (documentation to come), but requires a Plaid account in order to communicate with banks.

monetr is currently still in heavy development; but is being alpha-tested with the latest release version constantly.

## Status

| Environment   | Uptime                                                                                                        | Status Page                                                       |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Alpha Testing | ![Uptime Robot ratio (30 days)](https://img.shields.io/uptimerobot/ratio/m789641931-ce8fe24a641913b47027297d) | [Status Page](https://stats.uptimerobot.com/zAjyOcGm7E/789641931) |

---

Basic API documentation is currently available at https://docs.monetr.dev

This documentation is auto-generated from comments in the API code.

## Contributing

Contributions are more than welcome, however local development for monetr might be a bit wonky. I will in the future
provide a concise way to run everything needed to develop monetr locally. But right now beware that some things might
just not work right now.

## License
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmonetr%2Fmonetr.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmonetr%2Fmonetr?ref=badge_large)

Commit message:

chore(docs): Add information on how to develop.
Also removed stuff from brewfile that is no longer necessary.

README.md, after:

# monetr

[![GitHub](https://github.com/monetr/monetr/actions/workflows/main.yaml/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/monetr/monetr/actions/workflows/main.yaml)
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmonetr%2Fmonetr.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmonetr%2Fmonetr?ref=badge_shield)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/monetr/monetr/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=4BRVTD3VSJ)](https://codecov.io/gh/monetr/monetr)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/monetr/monetr)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/monetr/monetr)
[![wakatime](https://wakatime.com/badge/user/e7d2c225-af72-41dc-bf39-f4a8108dc790/project/30965d1c-e425-4da3-9a31-7b1ca82dfaef.svg)](https://wakatime.com/badge/user/e7d2c225-af72-41dc-bf39-f4a8108dc790/project/30965d1c-e425-4da3-9a31-7b1ca82dfaef)

<p align="center">
  <img width="460" height="300" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/monetr/monetr/main/ui/assets/logo.svg">
</p>

monetr is a budgeting application that aims to allow people to more easily plan their recurring expenses. It is
completely free to self-host (documentation to come), but requires a Plaid account in order to communicate with banks.

monetr is currently still in heavy development; but is being alpha-tested with the latest release version constantly.

## Status

| Environment   | Uptime                                                                                                        | Status Page                                                       |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Alpha Testing | ![Uptime Robot ratio (30 days)](https://img.shields.io/uptimerobot/ratio/m789641931-ce8fe24a641913b47027297d) | [Status Page](https://stats.uptimerobot.com/zAjyOcGm7E/789641931) |

---

Basic API documentation is currently available at https://docs.monetr.dev

This documentation is auto-generated from comments in the API code.

## Contributing

In order to run monetr locally you will need sandbox credentials for Plaid, you can obtain your own credentials here:
[Plaid Sign Up](https://dashboard.plaid.com/signup). Once you have a Client ID and a Client Secret you can run the
following command in the monetr project directory to start a local environment.

```shell
$ PLAID_CLIENT_ID="Your Client ID" PLAID_CLIENT_SECRET="Your Secret" docker compose up
```

This will start all of the services needed to do basic development on monetr. Some services are not currently included
in this workflow though, like vault. I am still working on an easier way to develop locally that will not require
providing secrets each time, but will also allow for config customizations.

The UI and API will "hot reload" while running in docker compose, any changes made to them will be auto built to make
development easier.

Contributions are more than welcome!

## License
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.com/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmonetr%2Fmonetr.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.com/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fmonetr%2Fmonetr?ref=badge_large)
